Transcribe verbatim. Back in the early 1900s or late 1800s, there were four people died up here in Grand Lake over the, where the county court has, oh, should be, whether it should be here in Grand Lake or Hotsaw for Springs. I don't know how many years people remembered that incident, but they still talk about it today. What the purpose of all that, those people dying were, I really don't know. But it seems like this has to happen again and again and again in human nature, that we kill each other so that the next generation looks at things differently. 

Who, where they will open their mind. And be open to other people's ideas. 

It's, it's a, it's a cycle. 

As best I can see it, God is saying that the cycle, it's time to happen again. 

Hopefully it lasts longer. Maybe it won't last as long. I don't know. 

You people didn't have to teach me anything. All the crap that you did to me has been done to me before on a much smaller scale. 

I know. I shouldn't have given you the benefit of the doubt. 

I should have learned. That people are ultimately. Corrupt. 

Didn't, I guess. 

I, I'm going to have to die with it. Because I'm telling you, I will not live with it. 

It's about 10.52 on the 15th of April in the evening. Uh, just another example. Of how forgetful. I, I am. And how sharp I'm not. I've been sitting here talking on this tape today. Wishing that I had the documents in front of me. All the time. It's been here in the computer. So I'm gonna, uh, bring some of those up and, uh, go over some of the things. I've got a tape and a quarter left here. And, uh, then I'm going to be done with this. Well, it's obvious. I never. I never got it. I never got those, uh, documents out of the computer. And I have no idea what I was saying. I don't have, I don't have time to spend with this, listening to this crap anymore. I guess just, uh, my final point is, is that they, uh, if the sanitation board in 1992 would have stayed out of my business, uh, the Thompsons, whoever it was, uh, Dick Thompson, John Thompson, Larry Thompson, um, Randy, uh, Schmuck, um, Bud Wilson, and I'm not sure who else was all involved, but they stuck their dirty, stinkin' fingers in my business. And they did it with malice. And, uh, and they, they shouldn't have. And malice begets malice. And, uh, and they, they shouldn't have. And malice begets malice. And, uh, and they, they shouldn't have. And malice begets malice. Had they, had they stayed out of my business in 92, uh, you know, I would have gotten my, uh, rental units put up probably in 93 instead of 94, which was only a boathouse at the time, but could have easily been converted to rentals. You know, it's, they just, they just, uh, they just ruined a, a good man's life. A lot of people, uh, they just ruined a, a good man's life. A lot of people, uh, they just ruined a, a good man's life. They just ruined a, a good man's life. A lot of people, uh, they just ruined a, a good man's life. A lot of people, uh, they just ruined a, a good man's life. But that's their style. That's what works for them. That's the only way they can stay on top. They can't play on a level, level playing field. You know, they gotta, they gotta try to keep people down. And that's okay. You know, hopefully they'll, they'll learn from their mistakes. Some, half of them are dead. Dick Thompson, Ron Thompson, the Docheff girl, the D&J's, uh, son, Northland, he's a young boy, he's a young man, he's a young man. He's a young man. They'll learn from their mistakes. Some, half of them are dead. Dick Thompson, Ron Thompson, the Docheff girl, the D&J's son, Northamy, and I don't know how many else were involved. They're probably dead too. They deserve it. They went too peaceful as far as I'm concerned. So anyway, this tape's probably got a lot of emotion in it, and anybody listening to it, you know, you need to realize that and just take it from there, you know. Anyway, hey, I hope you all have a great time, a good life. I've had a great life, and it's Saturday morning, the 22nd of May, 2004, and I'm going to put this tape recorder in a plastic bag. Somebody else can try to figure it out. We'll see you later. 

. 